[Music]
hey guys is Livie and I'm at with a
Natural History Museum in London this
wonderful museum is famous for its
dramatic architecture incredible sinus
or skeletons and thousands and thousands
of amazing specimens
but most of the specimens at the Museum
are actually on show instead they are
kept here because onto the back of the
main museum is this the Darwin Center
it's a state-of-the-art research
facility with over 25 kilometres of
shelving containing glass jars of
preserved animal specimens and they've
got all sorts from giant squids a goblin
shark and they've even got a Shetland
pony over the years scientists collect
them for research and all of them can be
found here so we're in the tank room and
I'm here with oli who's going to show me
some of his hidden treasures now only
this room is full of jars but we're not
going to be looking at the jars are we
can do at the tank the special feature
of this room we can keep whole specimens
oh my goodness look at the size of that
so that's a large South American fish
arapaima and this one was checked in
London zoo aquarium for many years I
used to watch it as a gangster so many
interesting ones in here I can see a ray
down this end yes this is a an eagle ray
it's a stingray you can see the
distinction on the tail
I guess what strikes me is just the
condition of them how are they preserved
well they were initially fixed in
formaldehyde but now that stops all the
degradation process stops and rotting
basically then the tissues are
impregnated with alcohol and that
replaces the water in the cells and we
know that that will keep specimens for
I have to pull the gloves on Olli
because there's one specimen in here
which I absolutely fascinated by the
monkfish look at this kite they're an
angular and trying to lure prey within
reach by wiggling this and anything that
comes to investigate that and get caught
when the mouth opens up and that lures
particularly small so when you compare
it with the deep-sea unblessed 1dc areas
are closely related but they're in
darkness so they must light goes up the
luminescent bacteria living in this bulb
and in the front female wants to present
this crowd of what probably looks like
little luminous shrimps and anything
that comes to investigate is unaware of
the mouth waking below under the male
are you happy
he's called a parasitic male and relies
on finding a female by following a scent
trail he's just there really to
fertilize the eggs blink she lays them
he bites into her skin their tissues
fuse and he's then dependent on her for
his nutrition is a way of sticking
together in a huge space although we
know that three-quarters of the world is
covered with water at the surface the
depth of the ocean the great depth of
the ocean means that 98.5 percent of all
living space on earth is actually
underwater and these animals have the
problem of finding each other and
finding food in a vast space and when a
male finds a female they stick together
for life
is it true that English cover is sort of
the type special is collected by Darwin
yourself these were all collected by
Darwin these are just a fish of course I
can't believe you to be actual specimen
yes so Charles Darwin to earn specimen
so what actually is a type specimen why
do you need them a tank specimen is the
means by which you represent the species
that you're describing is new to science
the process of making that known putting
it on the map if you like is to make a
species description describe its
features nominate this one good specimen
that you show I think shows the good
features so London and was a good secure
repository where a lot of scientists
wanted to put the type specimens for
further reference and that's why we have
such extensive collections on our left
we have a monstrous mollusk this is of
course so he's a DC's please look at
that from the tip of the tentacle all
the way down here this must be how long
do you think metres long and it's an
impressive time for an impressive
species yeah Wow okay so moving on it's
got one more to show me and I'm quite
excited about this one and talk me
through that the specimens you have here
well I'm looking at these larger jars of
fishes we got in this one here a
coelacanth so only known from the fossil
record
it wasn't taught that coelacanth were
with us anymore until 1938 one was
discovered off the coast of South Africa
alive so obviously expecting the world
and he found it it was in indeed and it
caused a great deal of stir in the press
it's probably the most famous of all
fishes now in fact there's another
species been discovered in Indonesia so
there are two moving units
do you think there's more more species
of coelacanth I couldn't believe it when
the second one was discovered many
people were thrown up and say I've got
an unusual vision I think it's a feel
account and it was it never was is that
so is a bit reaction but yeah don't be
true so in this room we have what a few
thousand of the twenty million why are
they out on display for the public to
see people would love to see little
shorts they do and the museum is in
recent years I think better at
displaying our research to the public so
for instance this Doman Center building
we make ourselves much more visible than
in the old-fashioned buildings that we
had here and there are many places in
the galleries which is where you can see
through to the scientific work being
done well absolutely fantastic and in
terms of the museum being the wonder of
nature or the hub of nature showcasing
everything in the world I think it does
pretty much less are we going yeah I
[Music]
have to say the Proverbs being one of
the most weird but wonderful things I've
ever done and we've only just scratched
the surface of these incredible
zoological collections and I'll
definitely be back but I'd also love to
hear your thoughts on these spooky
spirit collections and if you're new
around here make sure you subscribe the
BBS and blog to learn heaps more about
this wonderful natural world I'll see
you next time